# 345-HW4
## Mikayla Mount - Group 7
## I pledge my Honor that I have abided by the Stevens Honor System.

### Design
#### 1. What was most helpful about thinking about design methods of your project?
##### The most helpful part of thinking and going about our design for the finance bot was having a sense of direction, and having it be consistent between all of our group members. With the basics of our strategy and end goal in mind, all of the groupmates not only knew 'what' they were tasked to do, but also were able to have an idea 'how' we would go about it. Whether that be with the help of frameworks or studying each others work, the team knew what assets they had to help in the planning and creation of our code. Being on the same page as one another in terms of general design was by far the most helpful part.
#### 2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
##### The most difficult part about the design aspect of our project was agreeing on the specifics of our end product. The vision for the bot changes a few times for various reasons, whether it be for aesthetic purposes or in terms of what we were/weren't able to accomplish. This was alleviated by trial and error, as well as strong communication. The platform was ever-evolving, and through constant reevaluation by the team we were able to come to a consensus of the end-vision. If I had to do anything differently, it would be to spend time earlier on with visual software with the team to decide how the physical design of the platform would look, to lessen the amount of time spent on GUI later on in the project. However, I honestly am very happy with how this project came out and I do not look ack and regret the way the team spent our time. 
#### 3. What design methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?
#### For my next project, I would be interested to try a more level-oriented design, starting the process with the top most level with the most significant features. While this strategy does require extensive understanding of the problem, as long as the developers abided by an iterative implementative process, we can have a very strong development, strategy with room to refactor with more functionality later on.
---
### Implementation 
#### 1. What was most helpful about implementing, testing, and integration in your bot project?
##### The most helpful part about implementing, testing and integration of the bot project was the powers of Github. While this may seem like a obvious answer, it is such an obvious choice because its entire purpose is to host working data of several developers and keep the progress of both the individual and the group as a whole well organized and informed during every step. More specificallu, the use of branches and pull requests was particularly helpful with the implemenation, testing and integration aspects. By each team memeber having their own branch, they could implement and test as they please without confliciting with one another as they worked simulanteously. Pull requests were vital to each of our indiviual integration onto the main project branch, where one could compare their work against what already existed, mitigating many potential issues. 
#### 2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
##### The most difficult part, for me personally, was my inexperience using many new frameworks, APIs and services for project. In particular, I had very limited knowledge of React, and none with Bootstrap, Firebase and FusionCharts API. However, our project was heavily dependant on these services and I took it upon myself with ambition to learn more about these integral tools in the world of front and back end development. There was certainly a learning curve to this challenge, and often I spent more time debugging and reading (and rereading) documention than I did coding, but with perserverence and asking my groupmates for help I was able to accomplish much and learn even more.
#### 3.What implementation, testing, and integration methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?
##### There are various different kinds of new implementation, testing, and integration that I would like to try. The foremost method I would want to involve more in my development process would be more code reviews with my peers. In my  experience with these, theyve been extremely helpful in both learning different strategies on the best ways to go about certain issues, as well as fixing my code so its works properly. This ensures that my code is complete and correct in accordance to my group's goals, as well as informing my groupmates about my progress and my capabilites.

---
### Process
#### 1. What was most helpful about implementing kanban and code review in your project?
##### The utilization of the kanban board and code reviews helped our group stay n track and informed tremendously. The kanban board was particuarly helpful, both in creating and assigning many issues that the project would need to have completed by the time for deployment, and informing our peers on how our progress has come along. I personally took great advantage of the comment feature for the issues on our kanban board, listing out small accomplishment and trouble that I had as I worked on my delegated work. As previously mentioned, code reviews were also a great asset. It allowed our groupmates to help where needed, and assess where each one of us were in time management and skill capability. For me, code reviews were important to my personal growth through the learning curve of a variety of new services I was working with for this project. Communication and lending a helpful hand to one another throughout the process of this project was absolutely essential to its completion.
#### 2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
##### The most difficult part of the overall process was perhaps understanding the extent of the scope of this project. The team had several ambitious ideas and veins to be explored, but all came with their own time, skill and execution requirement. While we had the fundamentals of what the minimal viable project would consist of, this project was an ambitious one for our group so the execution of the prject itself differed from the inital expectations. The team was able to overcome these challenges and create a product that we were proud of, but if I had to do anything differently I probably would have been more honest with myself and my capabilites. I took a user story that required me stepping up and learning, which I was more than happy and eager to do. However, I did need to ask for help at several junctions. I am glad and proud in what I did accomplish, but I wish that I could have been even more of an asset to the team.
#### 3. What software processes or practices might you want to try again in the future on another project?
##### For this project, the team used both agile development and utilized story points in order to establish methodology, as well as establish and delegate the main objectives of the project, shown in the kanban board. In the future I would like to try the aagile estimation strategy, where group members use an iterative approach to estimate the complexity of some of the larger tasks at hand, as talked about in class. This not only gages the estimated size of the project, but also creates a dialouge of the most important specifics of the project and each members scope of skill. I feel like this instance in particular would have been particularly helpful with this project. 
---
### Overall
#### Our team experimented of different design methods, implementation practices, and software processes. Here are some of the different practices, and how they were benefical by comparison:
#### 1. Design
##### In terms of design, our group focused mostly on behavioral patterns. These kinds of patterns foocus on chain oof responsibility, command and interpretation, different states and different strategies. For our finance bot, these attributes were integral to how we wanted the flow of our project to be: data-focused with the ability to create and expand based on what the user inputs and how they want their data to be used and displayed. A strucutal pattern would have also been benefical for this project, with the use of adapters, bridges, composites and proxies we could have accomplished many of the same objectives in perhaps an easier way. However, we decided with a behavioral approach for simplicity and straight-forwardness when understanding how all of the functional and data-related elements would come together. Further more, we used abstraction in our implementatin, following a visitor-patter-esce approach to how we would use and display the user data. 
#### 2. Implementation
##### 
#### 3. Processes
##### As taught in class, our group followed a variety an agile practices and processes that greatly helped in the creation of our project. At a high level, some of the specific practices that we used include scrum, kanban boards and following the triangle of agile requirements granularity, such as sprints and user stories. We understoof that the waterfall model was a costly and problematic one. The sprial model was used in junction to some of these agile practices, as there is such a natural feel to developing, evaluating, refactoring and planning for the next objective. This was particuarly evident in the groups code reviews. However, with the integration of agile we were able to undergo this process but with our scope, schedule and resources in mind. Involving these processes made the world of a difference when developing a project with such complexity between four memebers. 
